-- Git Interview Questions


1. What is git-cherry-pick? why we use it?
2. Let’s say you’re working on new feature in some branch, now your manager says stop working on that and change few other things on old code. Here after changing the old code, I need to work on new code, so I 
   need to place my new changes some place How would handle this scenario? (Ans: git stash and then git stash apply )
3. What is a conflict in git?
4. command to list all branches in a repo?(Ans: git branch -a)
5. Why we need git? What makes git unique from other tools like SVN?
6. Let's say i have maven repo cloned on to my local, did some changes and i have build the code now target folder will    be generated. So now when i do git operations like git add, git commit or any other git 
   operations target folder should not be considered, how would you achieve the same?
6. difference between git pull and git fetch?
   Ans: One use case of git fetch is that the following will tell you any changes in the remote branch since your last 
        pull. so you can check before doing an actual pull, which could change files in your current branch and working         copy.
        If you do a git pull, it will do basically fetch (as explained previously) and merge any new changes to your
        master branch and move the pointer to HEAD 

7. How to clone specific branch in git?
8. Lets say your organization has github and bitbucket to store code, you have cloned a repo onto your local and changed directory name. after some days one of your team members asks you to share clone link, 
   how would you provide the same?(Ans: git remote -v )
9. I have shell script to delete particular dependency ( repo is maven project ). before running the script i need to clone repo to my local, here point to note i should only clone master branch and only last co   mmit ( last commit has all the code ) how would you do this?
10. what is submodule and why we need submodule?
11. Lets say you have changed 5 files a,b,c,d and e in a repo and you did git add ., now all the files are in staging area, now i decided not to commit file d. how would delete it from staging area?
12. What is git-cherry-pick? why we use it?
13. Let’s say you’re working on new feature in some branch, now your manager says stop working on that and change few other things on old code. Here after changing the old code, I need to work on new code, so I     need to place my new changes some place How would handle this scenario?
14. What is git reset ? Types of reset ?
15. How to delete local branch and remote branch in git ?
16. What are hooks in git? 
17. How to revert changes at different level in git
    Ans: If you want to revert changes made to your working copy, do this: git checkout .
         
        If you want to revert changes made to the index (i.e., that you have added), do this. Warning this will reset 
        all of your unpushed commits to master!:git reset

        If you want to revert a change that you have committed, do this: git revert <commit 1> <commit 2>
        If you want to remove untracked files (e.g., new files, generated files): git clean -f
        Clean untracked directories (e.g., new or automatically generated directories): git clean -fd
